This is the OGM Open Global Mind weekly call for Thursday, October 30th.
Uh, 2025.
Did I get the year right? Yep. How did we get… I don't know how we got into 2025 already. It's a quarter of the century.
It's happening fast, it's going by real quick.
We were, uh, just commenting on marsupials.
So, how clever… how clever the program is that you're born a little worm,
And you go out and you attach yourself to a…
Nutrition, and then grow up.
Um, has anybody been, like, up close and personal with a kangaroo or a wallaby that has a joey in its pouch?
like a pretty grown Joey with little legs sticking out of the pouch.
It's like it's carrying a nearly, nearly full-grown kangaroo in there. And the Joey…
The jury just, like, dives in, does, like, a little…
Cannonball in, and its feet are…
completely sticking out that you're like, wow, that looks uncomfortable.
Yeah, yeah, well, Joey loves it.
for both parties.
Um, and April and I got to feed wallabies and ruse, uh, when we were at a little wild park in Australia, and they are tame and delight… they're… they're cool!
They were very sweet.
Um, welcome everybody. Eric, nice to see you.
Um, even though you're on a call right now.
We have as our topic
how to render crony capitalism obsolete.
Which, um, Mike, was it your thought last week?
Well, I was talking about Coney Capitalism. We did a lot of wordsmithing and got lots of good ideas on which piece of this to dive into, but… for my money, crony capitalism and disinformation.
are two of the drivers of all the bad things that are going on in the world right now.
Whether it's wars, or Trump. Or, um… repression of human rights in country after country. It just… It's what you gotta do if you want to maintain that network of dark money and illegal activity.
Was there no crony capitalism under progressives?
Oh, no, I think, uh… I mean, Maduro considers himself, uh.
You know, a leftist.
I would think that the MAGA critique of the left is that it was crony capitalism.
of the current, of the progressive, of the progressive American left.
Well, communism in some ways.
That, that there were…
Yeah.
Well, we got two… we got at least two different themes here. We got… one is capitalism, and one is cronyism, and they… and maybe you want to take socialism in the mix, too, and combine them in various ways.
Uh, perhaps. I'm open for framings here.
Well, well, I think… I think crony socialism is a form of crony capitalism.
Mm-hmm.
Because it's all about the capital. Follow the money. I mean, it's socialism in air quotes.
Yeah.
And certainly what's happening in Russia, for example,
Marxism never got a chance.
uh, is crony commune capitalism, or something like that? Because, uh, the Sloviki…
is the name for Putin's former buddies from the FSB and the KGB and all those things.
who basically went out and owned a lot of the…
when they privatized all the enterprises, a lot of those people went out to run those enterprises.
And they scratch each other's backs, and I think…
I think one of the reasons Putin has such control over Russia still, even though he's eaten more than
1.25…
plus million Russians dead in this conflict is one of the estimates.
Uh, which is astonishing to me. Uh, they only lost, like, 20,000 people in Afghanistan after 10 years, and they left.
Hmm.
So, so the numbers are completely staggering to me that that many Russians can have died, and this is still a thing.
Uh, but I think the Silovichi are a reason why he can stay in power.
Jerry, why would you remotely call that
communist.
Um, because it seems like…
It doesn't seem… doesn't seem to be anything communist about it anymore since the fall.
I… yes, except there's, like, this, um, it's like, uh, there's a German term, Ostalgie,
Which is nostalgia for the old Ost regime, the former East Germany.
It seems like Putin is trying to regrow the
the former Soviet Union,
and happen… and using capitalism as a handy mechanism to do it, even though it's not that…
capitalist or democratic or anything anymore, right? So I don't know what to call… it's a kleptocracy, I guess. It's…
doesn't fall neatly into any category. So I…
Yeah.
It's not communism anymore, but it feels like there's some weird mutt mix of stuff.
Just to correct a statistic, Jerry, the 1.2 million number is.
No, I thought it was dead.
casualties, not deaths.
There's an estimate that's been growing ever since the war started, and it just… it crossed a million a while ago. It may be a Ukraine-biased estimate, but it's not casualties, it's dead.
No, it's CSIS… indicates that it was up to a quarter of a million people dead.
total casualties, well, and that… this was a couple months ago.
Okay.
But, yeah, it is… but a quarter of a million dead, I mean, that's… I mean, that's incredible.
That's still huge, yeah, yeah.
And they have half the population of the U.S.
So,
Yeah, that was as of June. In The Guardian.
So our topic is crony capitalism, and we don't need to… I mean, I dragged this into Putin land because I was
trying to figure out, so what is this thing? You know, how do… that seems to be a version of crony capitalism.
Uh, on the planet.
I…
And North…
It's the most extreme version, I would say, other than maybe North Korea and, um… And I guess Assad's… Assad's Syria.
Yeah, but I don't think North Korea would claim to be capitalist, where Russia would claim to be capitalist now, right? So…
Uh, so it is, I think, the most extreme version.
And I wanted to bring into the conversation
pretty quickly, uh, people like, uh,
Lawrence Lessig.
Uh, and his Root Strikers efforts. Uh, Lawrence has, uh,
Mm-hmm.
Lawrence has not had much success over the years, but he's been fighting the noble fight.
against exactly these kinds of things for years. He lost Eldred versus Reno.
Way back in the day, which was a copyright, uh, uh, uh…
case that went to the Supreme Court.
that was a terrible loss. I really regret that that happened.
Copyright just kept getting worse and worse after that.
Yeah, world would have been different, exactly.
The world would have been different. But even while he was doing that, I was convincing him that.
that's not gonna… not gonna work. I mean, the corruption caused by the copyright industry… is what's driving the politics of copyright and the policy.
And it is, it's blatant corruption. I mean, it's really, really bad how, I mean, these… Senators and congressmen are promised great jobs when they leave, and they get, you know, they end up.
million dollar a year jobs running trade associations for RIAA and Motion Picture Association of America.
But also, just, I mean, it… it's incredible how they… invite almost every White House staffer to.
movies at their special, exclusive preview theater. 5 blocks from the White House, and it's just… it's not… it's not that they're just focusing on the people who make the policy, they're… They're blanketing the… so that everybody thinks the movie industry is the most important industry in America.
Um, so I'm curious, let's pause what we've said so far, and let's get a little read of the room.
under the topic of crony capitalism, what paths would anybody like to take into the topic?
Uh, let's not assume away. Go ahead, John.
Um, alright, so this is…
This is, I will admit, big. I mean, so…
We never go for big. What are you talking about?
I asked indulgence.
So, uh, you know, of course, there's the transaction, economic transactions.
And all the things that go with that. You know, measurement,
precision, uh…
gross ignoring of important non-monetary values, et cetera, et cetera. So there's a whole world over here of economics.
Alright? Then there's this world over here
of, um, democracy.
policy. And there's this
attempt to, you know,
Keep the two separate. Uh, there's this idea that, well, people should be able to express their intentions, and those intentions should have consequences, and
That should work, you know?
And, uh, it's very fragile, and we all know how it breaks down.
Um, then there's this weird kind of middle territory that I'm going to talk about, and it's, um…
It has different… there are different models here. One… one model is, um…
you know, reputational economies.
Where people have influence,
that's a function of their reputation.
And there's, of course, we've seen the most, you know,
problematic and obscene versions of this.
In terms of the social media like…
button or number of followers, influencers, all that kind of stuff.
But I just want to kind of put that on the table, put it over there, and say, okay,
What would it look like if we had a diff… is there something missing? Is there something in the space here that's missing?
that if we could make it, it would…
solve the crony capitalism problem and the disinformation problem.
And the idea I'm thinking of is something like…
a, um…
Everybody has… and not everybody has a vote, everybody has influence.
And some people do have more influence than others.
Uh, but it's bounded.
You cannot be taken down to zero influence, and you cannot have more influence than some amount.
You know? And, uh, how do we get influence? Well, in an ideal world, you would actually earn
your social capital, not the way the Chinese do it, by saying, oh, well, you didn't say anything bad about someone, and you… and you didn't jaywalk.
But actually, by doing things that contribute to the community.
Um, and how would we keep track of this? Well, that's a… there's a whole set of…
messy issues here. I think…
I think if it's in the hands of the government, no. You know, or the hands of a corporation. I think it has to be a…
a kind of a quasi-public entity.
And, um, anyhow, this… this…
thing, this, uh, this reputational economy,
can periodically
be fired at certain social problems the way… kind of the way a…
Um, Civic Assembly does now. You know, we isolate an issue, we isolate some people, we say, you know, you've been selected,
You come out with a position on this,
By the way, try to get a position that has…
supermajority. Acceptance within your group, and then… then it'll have a chance in the regular system.
So, I mean, this is a cluster of characteristics, and I admit that it's very loose and very messy, but I'm wondering if there is something
In the way of a reputational economy that's not controlled by the government, that's not controlled by corporations, it has
limits, top and bottom. There's a degree of influence below which you cannot be lowered, nor above which you cannot attain.
And that does have some input.
to something like what we would call an election, but not with the
binary decisiveness of our current elections, more like a tuning.
More like a, okay, it's October, and we're now gonna tune, and, you know, guess what?
this thing you're trying to do, it's not… you know, you should do something else, you know. It's some kind of way of
Nudging the public sphere with
the reputational economy.
Very messy idea, I admit, but…
Yeah.
I have, yeah.
Well, that's okay. John, have you looked at liquid democracy? Like, the attempts to do it? Is there an overlap there, or are you talking about something quite different?
Yeah, yeah, there's an overlap, yeah, and there's the, uh…
I… I'm not recalling whether the version that I looked at had the reputational assignment. In other words, like, you pick somebody
Who has your vote on… in certain areas? Is that also part of Liquid, or is that something else?
Mm-hmm.
I think… I think you kind of proxy… you proxy your vote, or at least you sort of join people whose opinions you agree with.
Yeah.
Uh, and that sort of moves, and then you can see how many people are…
are going around, uh, the different opinions. Go ahead, Eric.
That is… that's just…
Correct, correct, I used to be… It used to be in a pirate party that was actually building on.
Thanks. Uh, so, go ahead, John.
Literally, the software system.
Okay, so just, you know, I mean, I know that it's very messy raw material, but it's just raw material from which to potentially build something that is
In between, uh, civic elections and economic transactions.
But then hesitated.
Um, also, I wish our friend David Baaville were on this call, because he did a lot of work in liquid democracy early on, is quite familiar with it.
Uh, et cetera, et cetera.
Yeah.
I also wish Grace were here, because, according to Kalia, a lot of the work that she and Grace and others are doing
With identity systems and other kinds of things, I think, move toward what you're talking about, John?
Yep.
It would be interesting to know.
Gil, please.
Yeah, thanks. Well, let's, uh…
Let's invite Grace and Clea and other folks back for a specific call focused on that, perhaps.
Um, John, what you say is messy and fascinating at the same time.
I can't imagine how you think about something that's not controlled by a government or corporations, since those control each other.
Um, and I'm not sure where cancel culture fits into the scheme that you're sketching, but all that aside,
I wanted to respond to Jerry's question about the framing.
Um, I think we need to look at, um…
If we're looking at chronic capitalism and these phenomena, we have to consider what of these arise out of capitalism, and what of these arise out of cronyism, which is maybe an innate human quality.
in human cultures, or maybe not.
Uh, but where do we see that, and where do we not see that?
So, I want to tease those apart.
Um, if we're going to look at these, uh, because I think each of them offers a very rich…
mess, if you will.
And, um, just by way of housekeeping, I'm going to switch to phone at the half hour, and I'll go off the call at the top of the hour. I've got a doctor's appointment, but I'll stay with as long as I can, and thank you.
Awesome. Uh, I did… did you want to dive into the separation you're looking for more?
Um…
I don't know… well, I don't have anything formulated on that, but I think what the phenomenon that we're talking about arises out of both of those.
Uh, and so I guess, like, yeah, I guess where I go is the question that I… that I…
Pardon me. The question that I ended with, which is…
To what degree is cronyism a, you know,
common, if not universal, aspect of human affairs, or the other side of that question is, where do we not see cronyism arising, and what sorts of societies?
And cultures doing not see Cronius as a phenomenon. So maybe we can kind of, you know, back out of the question into looking at some of the fundamental
roots of it.
Uh, and then we can get to, you know, does capitalism or modern capitalism or American capitalism?
give rise to more of that, or what are the phenomena that have more cronyism arise or not?
within the variety of capitalist societies that we have currently on the planet.
So, maybe we need to redefine our definitions a little bit, too.
Is cronyism when…
significant chunks of…
business or control or power are given to our
buddies and allies.
Is that the definition of cronyism? Meaning…
We always try to vote for people we like, etc. I mean, human relations are all about who you trust and who you're gonna, you know, bring in to do stuff.
we do… we…
The question is, do they get the rewards?
We do favors for our friends.
Um, you know, we bend rules and protocols and so forth for people that we like.
Um…
So we used to have the spoils system in this country, the spoil system was to the victor belong the spoils is the saying.
And if you won the election, you got to put your people in everywhere.
And then we created legislation to stop that.
Mm-hmm.
There's actually a book type that…
Yes.
I mean, we're mixing a lot of things together, and they're all interrelated, which is why we have to discuss the whole picture.
But you just pointed out that there… His cronyism in government, and then there's cronyism in the marketplace.
And in both cases, the test of whether you have crony capitalism.
is whether friendships. are more important.
and alliances. are more important and have more impact.
then market forces, or… good policy. And it's hard to draw that line.
But that's kind of the test that I use when I say, oh, well, that country is… characterized by crony capitalism.
They're clearly doing bad policy that favors a few people.
And generates a lot of profit for them. that they have no right to have in a fair.
free market. So the two are related. You can almost think of it as a circle where.
the policy is decided. That allows and enables projects.
Projects enable profits. For the select few.
That then influences the policy all over again. So the money is changing hands as it goes… From the government… to the, uh, to the people who are… implementing these projects, which…
Because they often have a monopoly, or have some other type… way to control competition.
They get the huge profits, and then they buy the legislature, and… hire the Prime Minister's son.
I mean, it's just… it's… it's an ever… ending circle.
And in a lot of countries. for 200 years, they had that circle, and there was a understanding that there was a, you know, a 10% cut.
There were these facilitators, and… You know, the nephew of so-and-so, and they got a 10% of the cut, and yet things worked.
After a fashion, and they… and things got built, and… I mean, New York City, in the worst of the… Boss Tweed days, managed to build quite the infrastructure.
Now, they had some advantages. There was all this new technology, and there was this flood of immigrants coming in.
So even if they were taking 10 or 20%, they… Had a lot left over to do good things.
It was crony capitalism, because it was obviously not.
being run to the benefit of all, and money was being diverted that could have been spent in much wiser ways.
But I think this point of how do we define it is critically important.
And… and… I love John's idea, which is… you know, the problem is not… getting rid of the cronies.
The problem is enabling all the rest of us to have some power, too.
And that's what they thought they were doing in Russia, all these Western economists came in and said, okay, well, we're gonna give.
uh, all these state enterprises. Uh, in the form of shares.
A share certificate in every pot. But, Gil?
Well, Mike, it did work that way.
to Russian citizens. Everybody was gonna have… their chunk of this nickel mine, and that… oil field, and somehow it never… never worked that way. It wasn't decentralized, uh…
Gil, can we just go according to order? Could you put your hand down, because you spoke a little earlier?
Yeah, sure.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Well, I would like to hear… he has a one-sentence intervention, I mean, I think he's right. I mean, the money… the shares were allocated, and then somehow… somebody went and, you know, reallocated them.
Go ahead, Gil, if you want to… if it's about that.
I will, and I'm a little confused, Jerry, because Eric stepped in with a comment before, and that was okay, so I'm not sure what the rule set is on… on…
short comments, but…
Um, yes, Eric looked like he was trying to explain the thing that happened right then, and I saw him, sort of,
Yeah, yeah, yeah. And that's what I was trying to do.
So I called him in.
Okay, oh, two fingers? Okay, got it. Two fingers.
That's a two-finger rule, yeah.
Um, my understanding, Mike, is that the shares were allocated, and they were very quickly scooped up by the folks that Jerry called that clever name before.
Silovicki.
So, you know, they went out to the regular people and said, you have these shares that might be worth something someday, but I'm gonna give you a bottle of vodka today.
And, like, VOOM! All of a sudden, all of a sudden, like, in very short order.
Because there was no protections against that as part of the scheme, the whole thing was consolidated.
You know, if they say a bottle of vodka in the hand is worth two in the bush.
Yep.
There you go. Stunningly fast, and I'm sure somebody has unpacked that story, it's a fascinating…
Because there was some… there was some potential there for something very, very different than we've ever seen before in the world.
Yeah, I would like to see it. I have not… I have not seen…
And it was just killed, like that.
This is… this is a little bit…
Yep, yep, yep. Worker ownership of the entire economy. Okay.
This is…
Thank you very much.
Thank you all. Tiny tangent for later. One of the things I don't like about Hernando de Soto's…
Okay.
Uh, economic theories that we should give people property… we should give very poor people property rights.
is that they rapidly get expropriated of those property rights and then have nothing at all.
So, it's weird. How do we protect people and ownership? How do we keep distributed ownership distributed?
That's a really interesting question.
if it's about a certificate or money, then it's purchasable from you, and then you're done. You don't have… you don't get that
participation anymore. So, uh, maybe we come back to that a little bit. I want to go to Stacy, who's been really patient and, uh, actually,
Alex, I think, was in line earlier and fell out, so let's go to Alex then.
I was, and I was waiting, but my hand went down for some reason, so… by itself. So, can I come in now?
let's… I think… I think if we make…
I think if we make a little bit of noise on our mics, sometimes the hand automatically goes down, because it thinks we're speaking.
Alex. Alex.
Uh, so let's do Alex, then Stacy.
Okay. All right, thank you. Um, first of all, on the Russia thing.
I have heard quite a bit about it. One of the elements was actually.
as you say, the stuff was given to the people.
But there were a lot of people who didn't have one idea from another what the hell they were given.
And there was a lot of mob rule, and they literally went and… They would go to the old people, primarily.
And say, you are the sign over this thing through us.
or you die, and generally, they kill them anyway.
the number was hundreds of thousands to millions of people were extorted.
And a lot of them killed, literally. by the mobs. It was just a whole mob rule type situation. There's a whole load of work being done on that.
Anyway, not now. Right, so on this issue. Yes, we're right to be separating crony.
Sorry, we're saying crony capitalism because our system is capitalist.
But actually, I believe cronism is… is independent of any political system. Once a political system, one's a system of self-interest.
Now, the only way I think, and I'm not… I'll say it, but I know it's impractical at the moment.
is the power that the crony. cronyism has.
is… most of the time, is it secrecy? or by the time it comes out, a lot of time has gone past.
So, one of the things you should do is, to me.
force the government and everyone. to actually… if you have a chat with a government minister, you produce a document that says.
within hours, this is what we spoke about, this is the recording.
this is what we said. So, ultimate transparency is what will.
At least make people aware that something's in the offing, because a lot of it is hidden behind the scenes.
Nobody ever hears about it, or if they do, it's too late.
Now, the things that come out against it. those guys will come up and say, one is commercial confidentiality.
Personally, I think crony capitalism has become such a problem.
that that is irrelevant to me anymore. they use commercial confidentiality for anything.
They'll have a great big chat about how they're gonna divvy up.
scratch each other's back or whatever, and then I'll put one number, one dollar a month, and say, that's commercial confidentiality.
It isn't, but that's how they use it. The other one is, oh, it's… Secret Service stuff. You cannot say anything.
My ultimate thing would be… If everybody's… every penny they make.
is up on a blockchain. for anyone to look at and question, why did you make that amount of money?
it's not comfortable, but at least we'd have a hell of a lot of information, and be able to say.
Why did this guy get this contract and made a few million out of the side there?
when the contract had nothing to do with it.
So, it's… is it practical? Could it ever happen?
I don't know, because these guys are pretty good at covering the tracks.
under the name of secrecy. So, but the blockchain could give you a lot of transparency?
Even if you don't go down the commercial route, if every government.
Senator, whatever, minister, every officer, every time you spoke to someone.
you had to say what you spoke about. And here's the recording of the notes of it.
Opt in the open, within seconds. Then, I think a lot less would happen.
But… who am I to say that?
Um, a couple items there. Uh, the government of Estonia, when they got their country back,
went all electronic. They were like, screw paper. And, uh, we're gonna just go electronic. And they did a bunch of very innovative things.
They had a platform for a while, I didn't have time right now to check whether it's still active and going, but called X-Road.
Still there.
X-ROAD, which they were actually starting to sell to other countries as a platform for government.
And I think, I think, I'd love to fact-check this,
I think when they started, every elected official had to post their calendar online.
Uh, and then my friend, uh, Andrew Roche was trying to run for elected office in Manhattan years ago,
And he and Mikhai Sifri were trying to get
One of their agenda items was,
We just want people to post their calendars. We want elected officials to post who they're meeting with.
That's it. Who they're meet… and could not get that through.
could not get open calendaring through as a small
issue in an election cycle, blah blah blah blah, because…
you know, who you meet with is one of the things.
Um… oh god, not Scalia. When, uh…
A Clarence Thomas was being, uh, was being outed for receiving a lot of gifts and things like that.
Uh, he was going to these retreats,
The retreats, it's not… it's not the money that matters in the fancy jet, it's the fact that those are places where people get to corner you and have conversations with you. It's the conversations that matter,
Not so much the money and the other goodies.
Um, so all these things are… are…
It's possible to legislate.
It's just that you can't get people to do it. Now…
It could be that humans in America and other countries are really ready
for a radically more transparent government, and that that would be part of a platform offer for a new party coming in.
I would like that. I think that'd be really pretty cool.
that we're gonna get rid of this kind of stuff and do it in this other kind of way.
Stacy, thank you for your patience.
The floor is yours.
I want you to go back and speak to the human part of the question.
from the small and local. Um, so… When we go to our friends, it's usually because we're looking for a bargain.
When I became president of a condo association, we had a rule in place.
that if you lived in the building, you couldn't do work in the building.
Well, we had a contractor living in our building who became my vice president.
And I changed that role. He was allowed to do the work in the building, but we got the family discount.
And we showed all of his… all of the materials that he bought.
We got his contractor's discount. We showed that the people in the building already trusted me. I had given them a lot of reason to trust me.
Everything was there. We saved a lot of money by using him, and he got the benefit.
of getting the work. It was his home. It was our home.
There was a mental thing going on where we all belonged.
to the community. when I look at what's happening in New York City.
And I'm involved in discussions with Mondami, and I have people saying all these horrible things, and.
you know, this is socialism, blah blah blah. And I point out to them that this man has 90,000 community members.
working together, and they will bring up theft, and I say, well.
when… I mean, this sounds kind of silly, but… When you feel like something belongs to you in your community.
Even if you're gonna steal. You usually steal from outside your community.
There's… there's just…
there's a lot of human nature that I do think needs to be considered.
And, um… I just want to say that I've had many conversations with many people.
And there's only two sectors. One would be the entertainment industry.
And the other would be in, like, finance. Where repeatedly, good people have said things that go like this.
Well, you gotta work with bad people if you're gonna make it in this business.
And I always want to throw up. Um, now, it used to be that you didn't hear that in government, and that was because they were afraid.
They'd be outed. People held secrets over you. Now it doesn't matter. Secrets don't matter.
There is no shame, you don't have to worry about.
being outed, because it's fake news. It doesn't matter. Nobody believes anything.
So, I think transparency has to be a big part of everything.
But I also think, like, when… Oh, John is still here. When John was talking, I always think of the jury system.
And I like the idea of juries, but I wish they were juries in other locations.
where they have no ties at all. You know, I think that kind of… disconnect, but connect.
could be, like, a good thing. I don't know if that makes any sense.
But I… I think that, um… by nature, we want to be surrounded around people, we want to be surrounded by.
And that part's a good thing. Which is… why we give business to those around us.
But when it becomes bad. is when it's us against them, and there is no… diversity, equity, and inclusion.
Thank you, Stacey.
Over.
Conflicts of interest, all those kinds of things are really hard to untangle and get right.
And it's part of… it's part of…
how we can construct society in different ways, right? And different societies have different things. Gil asked earlier in the chat, why only Estonia? Estonia had this weird moment, Gil.
Where… where they just had a chance to reinvent things. Iceland…
I had a moment where they reinvented their constitution, and then the parliament failed to ratify it.
So they did a great, great job.
Rethinking a very old Danish constitution that they inherited that they didn't like.
And then, uh, it didn't make… it didn't survive the political process, which is…
to my mind, stupid.
I mean, if you've done some great work,
That's unifying people, like, go for it.
Well, that's the reason, Jerry. Sorry, yeah, Jerry, because… the crony capitalists, or one of the cronyists.
got to them, because they didn't want that to go through.
Yeah.
In both cases.
Yep.
Eric posts in the chat that Denmark is seen as one of the lowest perceived public sector corruption… corrupt companies… countries.
company, that's very funny.
And here are some reasons. There's, um…
Eric, are you familiar with the folk school system in Northern Europe? The Folkscholden?
Forkscolon, um, back in… I'll look it up, but…
There was a system of schools, and it turns out that in most Nordic countries, a third of the population went to these schools.
And these schools were really, really good about civic participation.
that they kind of… they kind of turned out really good citizens. And it's possible that
The governments we have now in Northern European social democracies
are good and less corrupt and more trusted by their citizens because
of things like that. I don't know.
flinging around theories here.
Alex, please.
say, comment on that, Eric's ChatGPT point. Okay, so the way it's phrased this, lowest amount of perceived.
public sector corruption in the world. Let's assume it's not ChatGPT making it misnoming.
or whatever, mis texting or whatever, but… if everybody else had 100%.
Where is Denmark? Because it says. So, first it says it's lowers perceived, and then why is Denmark scene so clean?
Well, I don't think you can infer one from the other, because.
if everybody's at 100% cronyism, and Denmark is at 95.
there's still cronyism. So, what is the qualitative. or quantitative element of that statement.
And that's… that's what we're talking about. We're not talking about who's the lowest.
Or who's better than… we can talk about who's better than the others.
But the fact is, cronyism… is there, no matter what the society.
And I would… I would say, not just Denmark, looking at the way the Western governments, Western governments are behaving at the moment.
I don't think there's any of them as clean, in any way, shape, or form, including Denmark, given how the position's taken at the moment.
in politics. Just the way I'm looking at it.
Sorry.
And I think… the other thing we want to know is.
how are those numbers changing? I mean, are there countries that are getting better?
Yeah.
Or is everybody going downhill? Into the cesspool of the swamp.
Yep.
I'm Eric had posted some useful links earlier about Transparency International and a couple other, uh,
organizations, and I think that the transparency, uh,
info about…
you know, the surveys of global transparency are still pretty credible and pretty good and useful guides.
And you were about to jump in and say something, Eric, go ahead.
Yeah, one of the… I didn't find a hand gesture symbol anywhere, anywhere.
It's alright, it's under the heart if you're on a Mac.
Um. Ah, okay. So, um… Indeed, those, uh… I just want to say a bit of the whole picture that I sent in those.
few links, but God's just links. So, one part of it is Global Action Networks. That's a guy, Steve Wardell, he wrote about it, and he basically… his principle is you have to work with all different actors from the.
different worlds to solve a problem internationally. It gives you an example of the diamond trade.
Where, in order… for the… for the… it's like a slave trade, most of the… history, and they started cooperating with the ones that sell diamonds in Antwerp, for instance, the.
There's a big diamond sector. Uh, to then, uh, create… uh, what is it, um… like, uh… I don't find a word. That's difficult, the next… Yeah, I trust Mark, there's another word for it, but let's say a trust mark.
The trust mark.
And any diamond miner can get it. Uh, that is not working with saves anymore.
And then they have to also decide, do we work, then.
how do we change those other that are still working with slaves? So they start… have to also start working with the ones that are still working with slave.
Right, so there's this in-between place as well. I think Denmark is perceived as one of the better ones.
It's still not free from corruption, but it's… It's a place to look at.
And by, um… what Transparency International does is looking all over the world, it's using indicators to see, like, who's.
Um, who's… doing what on which of the aspects of.
of transparency, what's in order, what's not, and they're… They're updating yearly a list of.
Are these, uh, countries behaving. in a transparent way or not.
Then there's another one, which is circularized. They actually… in the whole value chain, it's very sensitive to share information.
Because once you're going to say, um. Once you're sharing information about any part of your value chain that is not.
Baving according to ethical values, that's also not good on your shareholders, and it will create an immediate backlash on your.
Um, well… on your… on your economy, on your business.
So they do it… in a way that's secure, that's private.
Uh, so all the info… it becomes a way to show what's in the value system.
what's ethical and what's not. to then be able to talk about it, because otherwise it keeps on being secretive, nobody shares it, so that's a kind of a smart way to tackle that problem.
is to look into the… like, it's a closed system.
Where the people who are involved can actually start looking at the value chain and how to improve it.
I think that makes much more sense than just, say, uh, show every penny. That's idealistically, that sounds good, but it's not pract… tickle at all. It's really not a realistic way in… for companies to evolve.
Oh, and that's also this point about the slave trade, like.
you have to start… Talking to the people who don't do it well to be able to change them and work with the enemy, work with the bad guys.
to make them less bad guys. That's a principle we don't like. We don't like to make our hands dirty as idealists.
there's these other guy, Kahane, who says, like. Yeah, there is power and heart, and they need to come together.
a lot in power. You also need to be able to… Yeah, if you… if you're… wanting to deal with power and how to change it, you'll have to go into the places where it hurts.
Uh, that's another part. there's more aspects, but that's what my mental alacrity allows for the moment.
I think you mean Adam Kahane, and…
Thank you. Yes.
And his book is Power and Love, A Theory and Practice of Social Change. I think that's what you're pointing to.
Yeah, and what they… yeah, and they're… their consultancy agency, so both Steve Odell and Adam Kahnig.
are… have been in the same consultancy agency? I don't remember… Rios partners.
It's Rios Partners, which is now owned by Generon.
Yeah, well, probably Rios Partners also did some evil things, but they… they also have a lot of really deep.
multi-stakeholder processes that it makes sense, and that did change things.
Adam Khani was involved also in the process of.
of South Africa one day… Yeah. When they changed from an apartheid regime, which is kind of still there, but it's also kind of better.
Mm-hmm. Um, thank you, thank you for bringing all those things into our conversation. Really appreciate it, Eric.
Um, Alex, please.
Thank you, Eric. Um, very interesting. The thought that came to my mind… is that what you're describing is excellent, it's happening.
is changing. the… let's put it… the influence part of crony capital, or cronyism.
Vinflamm, because there's influence. But there's also criminality.
And everything you described there, to me. helps with the influence part, and by no means that's a great thing to do.
But I would like to… what came to my mind is, yeah, that addresses the influence part.
But the criminality is a big issue. There are criminals out there doing… making things happen.
Right? And it influences politics, it influences policy, and everything else. It's not just… the elective… what are we going to call it?
the normal things, non-criminal things. There is criminalism in crony capitalism, so if you go to Russia.
this criminalism there, in addition to crony capitalism. I would argue there's criminalism everywhere, but it's… it's a bit easier to see it and run.
than it is in the US, or. or Britain, or whatever it is that we are.
Um, you know, it's sort of… I could tell you things about corruption, but anyway, never mind.
So that's the point I was trying to make, is that there's probably a more nuance, but I liked what you said, Eric, because it addresses the.
the normal, safe. version of cronyism.
Just to add, to build on what you're saying, Alex, there's also, um…
a trend to legalize a lot of things that you would see as immoral or crony or whatever else, just by
Passing laws because you have enough power.
that things that you would normally not have allowed to have happen are suddenly not illegal anymore.
They're just not things you want to see happening.
Uh, but that happens in regime after regime. When you… once you get capture,
Once you get regulatory capture,
you can effectively, uh, sort of whitewash what you're doing a lot.
Um, Eric, it looked like you were gonna…
Jump in again?
I'm still… I can't find this answer still, but, um, the, um… Not the one that puts up my hand, actually.
Yeah.
So… yeah, I just want to give an example, like… I live in The Hague. The Hague has the… International Criminal Court and the Criminal Court of Justice.
The big problem is, like. on an international level, it's very difficult.
for law to… the effect, like, um, Netanyahu has been, uh.
on the list of, like, you have to, like.
bring him over to the International Criminal. Court of Justice. If he passes in your country, that doesn't happen.
But… and that's… that shows, like, how difficult it is for an international community.
to actually live according to laws on an international level. It does work a bit, but it also shows with Netanyahu.
like, how… Uh, our countries, they seem to be better because we're democracies, but then when.
Push comes to shove, we actually also become a bit crony, even on that level.
And we are… I mean, they… The Hague, for me, is very hopeful in one way, because they actually do that, they actually put them up as a criminal.
On the other end, I'm also very close to.
Rotterdam, which is one of the biggest drug trafficking hubs in the whole world, which is irony, like, it's everywhere, and it's kind of… And the Shell headquarters, like, right around the corner, so it's… it's all happening together so close to each other, which is kind of…
crazy. This kind of… Lawfulness, lawlessness, it's… it's happening in the same place, at the same time.
like, 500 meters from each other, and it's the absolute opposite.
I mean, this is, um…
This opens up so many interesting questions, because what you were just saying made me realize that
I have a thought in my brain, Trump and Putin are acid tests of the world's legal systems.
That, you know, if the legal systems can't stop people, and that's supposed to be the recourse within the system,
then what… what does?
Doug, you're muted.
Pardon?
Who said that? Who said that quote?
Uh, that was me. That was just the way… that was a label I gave a thought in my brain, which I'll post into the chat now.
I…
That's very wise. Very good. Very quotable and tweetable.
Oh, good. Doug, you're muted. Go ahead.
Yeah, I just, um…
I think there's a tendency to conflate legal system.
with a set of morality, ethics, and values. And they are not an equivalency.
A legal system… If you look at the definition of.
of law? Um.
It is a system… for… by which a… society or state or other.
defines a set of rules that apply to all.
And that defines the penalty when. broken, breached, or violated.
So the emphasis of… definitionally, the emphasis of law… what a law is.
And what a legal system is, is. It's a system that defines a set of rules and defines a set of penalties for.
By awaiting. There is no intrinsic… thing that says.
a legal system has to be moral, ethical, fair, or righteous.
So, to your statement, Jerry, I don't think… Trump and Putin test legal systems, Trump and Putin are just varieties of legal systems.
They just happen to be totalitarian. authoritarian, their law governs, and everybody else marches to the order or gets shot.
The common law legal system, the… in, you know, quaint old institutions, legal institutional.
structures of, you know, what used to be the United States of America.
purports to carry and bring values and… In service twos and all sorts of… plugins and add-ons and layers.
Um, but that's not… Strictly about the legal system.
It's about, you know, in whose hand it's being wielded.
Um…
And with that, I'm complete.
Thanks, Doug. Partly what I meant was, when Trump was out of power in his interregnum,
you know, post his first administration.
He did not control…
any of the mechanisms of power. He had referen… he had amazing referent power within
the Republican Party.
Uh, that played out like crazy, played out just right for him.
But there was a legal system that he did not control with a bunch of Trump-appointed judges who were ruling against him.
Et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. So I'm… Putin less so, because once Putin took control, he managed to, you know, weaken everything.
and break institutions a lot.
and put his cronies in charge.
But I'm… I'm between what Eric just said about the International Criminal Court, which I'm, you know, slightly aware of, how…
how difficult and futile the work of actually bringing people to justice is worldwide.
Worldwide. I think I mentioned here, Mark Goodman is a consultant on crime. He used to work at FBI, then he worked at Interpol.
And I gave a talk at the Institute for the Future years ago, where he described how to communicate with one of his peers across the Atlantic,
He had to go through channels, his message had to sort of work its way up, go across, work its way down.
And then he said, and our enemies are just using email.
that they're just writing to each other, or Signal, or whatever. I mean, like, you know, encrypted messaging, right? I don't know if we just write each other, and you could hear an audible gasp go through the audience. Everybody's like,
wow, we're… we're…
really screwed, like, if we're forcing… if we're forcing enforcers to go through channels,
And, you know, hindering their every effort to do stuff. Wow. And, by the way, it's real easy to pass laws that cripple
efforts to corral bad actors. And when bad actors get in… when you get capture, how do you avoid… I think…
I think maybe this is one of my particular fascinations with this question about crony capitalism is,
How do you detect, avoid, and then undo
capture of systems.
Gil, please.
Yeah, I think that's a really important question, Jerry.
the anti-corruption mechanisms that we've put in place over the decades.
came from good intent. Um, but they get ossified.
Uh, when I was CSO of Palo Alto, I couldn't talk to city council members outside of council meetings.
Unless I had the explicit approval of the city manager.
Yep.
And no more than two of them could talk together, or three of them talk together, it's a violation of some state law.
So, you know, there's good intention, and then… and then difficult mechanisms, and regulatory capture and all that, but I wanted to… follow on what Doug said. I think what he said about laws.
is extremely important. It raises the parallel system that we have in human cultures of norms.
Uh, and shaming as, uh, as adjustment and control mechanisms, which of course have their own downside.
Uh, because they can suppress variety and deviation and individual freedom and so forth.
But the question I've been mulling as I've been driving is this, is that, um.
I think we may have talked about this last week or the week before.
Um, when a lion… brings down a gazelle.
kills it, drags it back to its pride to eat.
Is that crime? Predation is part of the living world.
Things eat other things. Things kill other things. We have parasites. These are evolutionary processes that are adapting.
in certain ways, and they're constrained in certain ways.
And is what we're talking about just that? An organism or an entity striving for advantage and benefit, which all organisms do.
And there are various countervailing forces, you know, biological in the case of the non-human living world.
Um, institutional and cultural in the case of the human living world.
And this is a constant dance of coevolution. And, uh, any thought of ever-ending it is folly.
And the question is, what dance moves do we make to have the dance be something that we like?
And I'm complete with that question, and actually, I'm not complete. I'm in the thrall of that question.
Thanks, Gil.
Let's see where y'all go with it.
Thank you.
Where do we go? Why don't we go into silence for a moment? This… we've gone…
very quickly through a lot of things, and we keep dragging large issues into the conversation, which I…
Which I love, but I find a little overwhelming now and then. So let me…
go into silence, and I'll bring us back out in a little moment.
Mm-hmm.
everybody take 3 long breaths.
Just… inhale…
Hold the breath at the top a tiny bit.
Let it all out.
Stop at the bottom for a little bit.
Inhale again.
Take it in…
Hold it at the top.
Let it out.
Hold it at the bottom.
One more. Inhale.
fill your lungs.
Hold it.
And then let it up, and let…
whatever was troubling you, go.
With the air.
also a public service announcement, which I will make
often than I do, which is never… I do post these recordings to YouTube, like, right away, so what we say in here
does go openly into the world.
Just so everybody knows the ground rules.
I don't… I don't… I don't have a preamble. There isn't a place where, you know, all those kinds of things are stated
very often, so I think it's useful to know that.
How many people watch a typical episode, and have you had any episodes get thousands of.
Oh, Matt, our viewership is massive. We get, like,
Viewers?
15 to 30 viewerships for some of the most popular episodes. I mean, we really… we're really going.
I just wanted to make that clear to people.
Yeah, and none of our episodes… none of our calls has gone viral that I know of, anyway.
Can I… can I ask… can I ask the question.
And it's probably…
But how…
But what… what makes a person, out of all the YouTube material.
What makes a person specifically look for our recording?
Um, I…
They missed… they missed it, and they heard it was good.
Because it's…
I think there… I think there are people who have discovered our conversations unlike them. I know that one of my dojo mates, uh, regularly, you know,
browses our calls and will comment to me on the map about things we said, and it's like, oh, so-and-so did this and that. I'm like, oh…
Wow, dang. Um, so I, you know, I think there are people who, uh, enjoy,
what it is we're doing, somehow. I like that. Eric, you were trying to say something a moment ago.
there's… yeah, how long did it take for a bug to get recognized, the scoundrel?
And, um, it was a scramble a bit. He was not an easy person. But on the other hand, I shared this thing about embracing the groundless.
Countless ground, and this was a very deep… exist… existential philosophical conversation I had with.
And it's this artifact generated in Cloud on… hard to be with the fact that there is no… no easy fundament… of positivity to hold on to in life. There's always gonna be more negativity.
And that came up when you had this moment of silence.
So, I just wanted to hand it… Like, we… we are… we were living in a world with a groundless ground.
Thanks, Eric.
Um, Pete, you gotta follow that.
I cannot, uh, improve on that.
Living in a world with a groundless ground. Um…
I wanted to come back to the YouTube viewership, uh, YouTube channel viewership, and it's…
It's… it's true that in the vast world of billions of people,
Uh, they're gonna be, uh, a dozen or two.
Uh, who see this recording.
But I also wanted to point out, and I don't mean to scare anybody or anything like that, but I also want to point out that…
Not counted in those views are the transcript getting offloaded to Gemini, and if…
If, uh, Anthropic and OpenAir are clever, they'll also end up with that transcript.
Um, and then social network analysis will, uh, keep the set of these people
Um, talking about these topics, and you said this thing in…
in public, basically, uh, forever.
Um, so it's, uh, it's an…
I appreciate, Jerry, that you post these, uh, these calls, uh, in public.
Um, and I wanted to just make it clear that, um,
counting YouTube viewers is not the, uh, not the only ramification of where
where this ends up.
Absolutely.
Absolutely, thank you.
Especially in the times we're living in.
Yeah. I have to say, Gerry, that you're absolutely right, because.
you cannot imagine how uncomfortable it makes me when I finish the call.
And then I'd say, I think, oh, I said this, and I was gone to the world, you know? It's like… Because when I'm in the moment, I'm talking to you guys, I'm not talking to the world.
if I was a politician, I'd be talking to the world, so I wouldn't say half the things I say.
It's a bit of a… you know, it makes me deeply uncomfortable, personally. If I could find the same audience.
But without the transmission to the world, I'd be a lot more comfortable.
Totally get that. Um, in, um, in days of old, when I got out of grad school, I, uh, before I started my first job out of grad school,
I had a brief consulting engagement in Buenos Aires, Argentina.
for 7 weeks, so I went there and did some really cool work, and made some friends.
Who told me stories about the dirty war. And, um…
the stories would go roughly like, you know, you'd be in a cafe with your buddies,
And all of a sudden, somebody would say, hey, the federal police is here, and everybody would just, like, leap out the windows and race to get out of there.
Like, you did not want to be corralled.
And then, if they sort of cut people, they'd go to your home, they didn't necessarily need a search warrant and things like that.
They'd go to your home, or they'd just pick up your address book.
And, uh, they would ransack your home, and if there was anything lefty in your home, and
The best musicians of that era are… joined the Communist Party as protest,
And then we're basically forced to emigrate out of Argentina and Chile and Brazil.
So a lot of them ended up in France and became really brilliant musicians and came back later to triumph.
But if you had a record by Mercedes Sosa or Caetano Veloso, or something like that,
You might be disappeared and pushed out of a helicopter over the river plate.
That, that, you know, that was happening.
But then they'd grab your… and I'm saying all this because then they'd grab your address book and lather, rinse, repeat.
They would basically go through your private contact list and your address book.
In our address books are now very, very public.
in ways that are uncomfortable for anybody who thinks that we're heading toward those kinds of regimes.
And that is a piece of modern reality, unfortunately.
Doug.
We seek wisdom in these troubling times, Doug. What do you have for us?
Well, I was actually… I wanted to respond what you… where you just went, but also to respond to.
where Alex went. with that discomfort thing, and I was… and my… My question is, what if…
you existed in a space and place in terms of your own identity, your own Earth, your own values, your own consciousness.
that, um…
you had no… self-consciousness fear.
or doubt attached to how you walked in the world, how you contributed to the world, and… what you said.
what you do. And… I'm having a very rubber-meets-the-road moment.
around that question. with my partners in being in systems at this moment.
So, um… One of my partners and I found ourselves deciding.
with a new, relatively new client. to, um, with a little bit of a pracie.
to send a transcript of our last discussion about that client.
Unedited. unadulterated, unfiltered.
Because both of us, at the end of it, looked at each other and said.
there's nothing in there. that isn't 100% in alignment with our orientation, our values are being unsurfaced to.
And… Our difference, because we're being in systems that focuses on the being part, not on the systems part.
what we're actually selling is exactly that. It's, you know, what's living for us in response to.
You know, the rule is nobody tells you your flies down and to left, you zip it up.
Nobody ever says what they're actually thinking. Nobody actually shares what they're feeling.
Because that's dangerous and risky. Um, and… Um, and I'm just sharing this because.
there is an alternative. And consistent with that.
I also… So, have… don't carry fear.
In these kinds of spaces, I've been online in Zoom rooms and recorded sessions.
Some posts… a lot posted, most posted a lot, some not.
Um, and… Um… I'll stand by me.
And I'll accept consequences. If the world and culture and society I'm living in decides that.
it doesn't like me, um, I'll… I'll live with that too.
Um, so anyway, I'm complete with that, but it's just… Yeah.
Thanks, Zach.
Thank you, thank you for that, Doug. there's a difference. When I listen to you.
I hear wisdom. When I listen to me, I hear my… I don't hear wisdom, I hear my thoughts.
No!
And my thoughts, from experience, my thoughts are not exactly standard. You know, I tend to… I've talked to a lot of people about it. I've talked to left, I've talked to right.
you know, and, you know, have a lot of non-standard.
things. Anyway, but… sorry, Jerry, um, I was going to talk about that a bit more, but, um.
Why don't you…
we haven't… we've gone away from the crony thing, so do we want to go back there, and… I don't have anything to say on that. I just wasn't going to say anything more.
Why don't you, um, put your thoughts into the room right now, and then we'll take a little temperature reading about where we are on the crony topic.
Okay. My… my… thank you, Doug, for that again, I'll say it.
my… the back of my mind, the biggest fear is that a lot of the… analysis of what people are saying and what they believe in is being offloaded.
Ultimately, do AIs, but even before AIs came along to.
to systems. So my biggest fear is that my name, or your name, or Jerry's name, or whatever.
appears in some list. Because there are keywords that were used.
And then, you know what bureaucracy's like? Systems of bureaucracies and people.
they don't know you or me, and then they'll say, oh, okay, here's… I'll press a button there, and here's under surveillance.
For whatever. And before long. something will go wrong. That's what… worries me more, particularly now, because it's so impersonal and so… I haven't told this group, but… two or three times. Back in 2010 or something.
My parents wired me some money. to Britain, right? From Greece to Britain.
And… the money was lost. I would call my bank, no, nothing's happened. I would call their bank. Yeah, we sent it.
So, I actually have to… four weeks or something, I went to the bank.
I kicked up many hell, because they kept saying, we've got no record of the money arriving.
And I was saying to him, but it's Barclays. Barclays here, Barclays there.
They say the Senate, you say not. Anyway, so I really misbehaved in verbal means, and it's the middle of London.
It's the international banking. Lots of wealthy people around.
And you've got Alex… effing and blinding and accusing everybody of… stealing his money, or whatever. Anyway.
So if I went, really upset. And literally a quarter of a mile away, someone tapped me on the shoulder.
And it was one of the employees. And they said… I'll tell you something now, if you tell anybody else.
So it's a few years now, so it doesn't matter.
If you tell anybody else, I will go to jail.
But your money's not lost. It's just that because it was over a certain amount, it's been flagged for analysis by the Secret Services.
for terrorist purposes. And he said, the problem is they've got such a backlog at the moment, it's taking them 3 months to clear the line.
So you will get your money. But… but just wait 3 months. Literally, when they get through the queue.
Right? True story, I'm not making it up. And hopefully nobody's going to go back and jail the person that told me.
The advantage he has, or she has, I actually don't remember the face or anything else in such a state.
I actually don't remember what they look like. But… but… and guess what? Next time.
It happened again. So my name must be on some list. Every time everybody sends me money from overseas, bang!
Except now they clear the queue faster, perhaps. I don't know, who knows? But that's what scares me.
Crazy stuff. Um, Eric, you found how to raise your hand. First, I want to thank you for that, congratulate you for that.
But general applause, uh…
And then off to you.
Someone work, um… about what… it's partly what keeps me having trust that it won't go.
to the extremes in America. that the biggest chances that… Somehow, it will keep on being intact is because there's a very strong dissident voice.
still allowed and able. And the moment… the dictator wins is when the voices of dissent go silent.
So, I do hear the true story, I mean… it's… and I think it's attention arc, like, there's a balance to be made, but I also want to name that it's… it's really… important. Like, if you're starting.
to criticize yourself, to, um… To hold yourself back from speaking truth.
You're actually also installing a system. of not speaking up. And I'm sorry for what happened to you as well, I mean, it's… It seems to be a very nasty situation to be in.
And at the same time, maybe thank you, I don't know, uh, for taking the risk of speaking up and being honest, and… Maybe it's not always the most handy thing to do, but there is something really positive also in it. Maybe that's what I want to say. It's maintaining.
the dissident voices, which… Which makes or breaks.
the rule of law and the. the dictatorship can be installed or not on a permanent level. There's this one country in the… Asian country? I don't remember which one exactly.
that actually overturned their dictator not that long ago, a few years ago, I think.
And that was also because that was a very strong civic sector that kept on.
Mm-hmm. Thanks, Eric.
Yeah, sounds right.
I think it was Thailand.
And of course, there's the famous example of Marcos in the Philippines.
Um, Mike, the floor is yours.
And how people power can make a difference.
I wanted to bring up the role of religion.
And… how that has… utterly failed.
To stop crony capitalism and corruption. I mean, it's really quite extraordinary. Even the Catholic Church and the.
Church of the Vatican. just riddled with corruption, and not, you know, not little… $100,000… stolen checks, you know, and we're talking… you know, hundreds of millions, perhaps more.
And often it's just because one or two people.
win the trust of, uh, people who don't really want to deal with all the complexity of.
moving money. And they know how to move money, and they move it where they want, and uh… often can cover up their tracks for years.
The good news is… Because we do have electronic records, and we have more and more tools to spot these anomalous transactions.
people are usually caught. But it is… it is extraordinary that, um.
all this business about the Ten Commandments and thou shalt not steal, Thou shalt not lie.
it doesn't seem to affect people. Maybe we need a new religion, maybe we need to start something that is more pragmatic and.
I…
uh… is… is… very much focused on norms for good behavior. There's some of that, I mean, the… George Washington was… from a very early age, obsessed with books on morals.
And he lived it, and he really, he really did live it, and that's why so many people trusted him to.
take leadership of the Army, and then take leadership of the country.
I offer you Fubarism.
Which is a placeholder religion that I have founded.
I put the website up.
The question on Fubarism, which I think is maybe a good question for a
future OGM call is. If you got to invent a religion, what would you put in it?
There is a religious… a church of life. which was founded by two British comedians.
Mm-hmm.
And uh… for about a year or two, it was the fastest growing religion in England.
Yes. They were having, like,
What was funny was it was all focused on the social. It was about getting people to come in on a Tuesday night, and.
have a potluck, and… support each other, and the classes were not on biblical studies, it was on.
That's not quite the name of it. Do you remember the name of it?
How do you do estate planning? I don't know how… I don't know if it's still growing, but…
Well, if you… if Subarism gets off the… off the… off the, you know, gets… gets launched at velocity, I… I will definitely… submit a petition that you be the first saint canonized under the Fubar religion.
Fabulous, thank you. And, you know, if…
What was that… was that religion life? Religion of life, did you say?
I think it was called Church of Life. Let me… let me see if I can find it.
I'm not sure that's the name, because that's… I recognize the story, but that didn't get me to it yet, so if anybody wants to look up what the actual
Okay, let me… I'll do a little… Little background.
Thank you. Beautiful.
Pete, please.
Um…
It's funny, Mike, I like that, the first thing. I'm gonna bring in religion, and I'm like, oh, thank goodness somebody's gonna save us.
And then, of course, I… in a way, the big organized religion…
I don't know if I would even pluralize that, but the really big one.
it's kind of the original crony…
you know, crony commercialism thing. I mean, it's 2000… well, a thousand years of
basically, you know, organizing and sapping
people and conducting
crony, uh, operations. I… and… and Mike, to your point, I… you… you said in there somewhere,
Um, taking advantage of people who want more simplicity in their life, you know? Saying, hey, I'll sell you some simplicity, and…
And, uh, you know, it only costs some tithing, and, you know, supplication, and, you know…
grease the wheels a little bit, so the big man is on your side. No problem.
So, I think that's actually a trenchant observation about how we ended up with coronary capitalism.
Um, because certainly, you know, one or two of the big religions came first, and…
set the stage for it.
And you only need to go back and look at, like, let's just say the Borgia family and the papacy, or, I don't know,
Pick a couple of the little points in history to go…
Yeah.
really deeply into crony somethingism.
long ago. There's a time-honored tradition of this happening all over the place.
Maybe, maybe non-crony systems are the exception?
to the rule, and cronyism just…
is the background radiation? Uh…
Well, as I say, I think there's a spectrum between the 10% cut.
the 90% cut. And 100% cut.
Yeah. Um, Stacey, and then we've got 10 minutes left in the call, and I'd love to take some time just…
Thinking about the topic and the call and…
satisfying, unsatisfying,
et cetera, et cetera. Just, like, feedback on…
on this particular topic and process.
Um, oh, Sunday assembly sounds… sounds right, Pete.
Thank you. Uh, Stacy.
Well, I was really triggered when Mike brought up religion, because I think it's a huge piece of this.
In many ways, I talk to lots and lots of religious people.
And so I would throw out 3 things that I think are part of the problem.
One, it's going back to what I was saying about the secrecy and the blackmail. A large number of people suppressing who they are.
Sexually, keeping a whole separate life, keeping all those secrets there.
having to act out against the same group of who they are.
is a very big piece. Um, another piece of it is.
a large number of people are convinced. that they can do anything they want to do here on Earth.
Because on their deathbed, as long as they invoke the name of Christ.
Good to go.
They are totally forgiven. Nothing else matters. They are totally forgiven.
And then the other part is the patriarchal piece.
So, I think it's all wrapped up there. I mean, and I have no problem with religion. I love… I love the ritual piece.
I love the community piece. I just think there needs to be accountability and transparency.
And uh… yeah. Over.
Thanks, Stacey.
Um, thoughts about the topic?
End the call.
I just want to say a big thank you.
Um, and I learned a lot about. particular case studies, and um… I guess I was reaffirmed in my… conviction that more transparency is probably going to be the most important thing here.
And that a lot of our current approaches. like, monitoring every credit card transaction that a city councilman.
has… are not really the right answer. I mean, somehow you change the behavior and not try to… document the behavior, which… I mean, a smart thief will find a way around such things.
I'm really interested in how healthy communities rein in these bad practices, sort of.
And I probably have completely naive ideas about that, but I'm…
very interested in how we self-regulate together and out the bad actors, and not…
banish them, but…
call them in, in some way. I really like, sort of, post… maybe there's a…
future OGM topic also about call-in culture.
As opposed to call out culture.
Which is a lovely thing. There's a…
have a draft post that's not…
Uh, there's a woman, um… hold on.
Is that trademarked?
There's a woman…
Who gave a really nice…
TED talk about call-in culture. She, uh, calling in Loretta Ross.
Don't call people out, call them in. I'll post the YouTube link in the chat.
It's really good.
There you go.
And next week is a check-in call, and since I sort of skipped last month's check-in call, let's actually do check-in.
This next Thursday.
So, uh, Stacy, please.
That's exactly… Jerry, thank you. What you said is exactly what I raised my hand to say.
the whole idea with transparency, there also needs to be some.
some way of redemption. and forgiveness, um, to be able to, you know, get back on track.
Um… I think of… what's his name, uh, Michael… the one that used to be Mia Culpa.
Oh, God. Yes, uh, what is his name?
Michael, um, Trump's old lawyer. Michael…
Cohen.
Michael Cohen. Cohen.
Oh, Cohen. Michael Cohen. Ty Cobb is doing the same thing now. That's another one of Trump's lawyer.
Right. Well, the…
Or even, like, people who have, like, been, like, these big, um… whatchamacallit. People who have stolen, or, you know, big-time criminals who then go back and give you security tips on what to do, like.
You still recognize that they did something wrong, but they have an expertise that you want to use.
And so a lot of times, people will use their expertise.
But they're not… there's no punishment involved, or there's no transparency involved.
And what I'm speaking to… okay, let me back up a minute.
When I was talking earlier about people saying, well, you have to deal with bad people.
I was part of it has to do with the fact of.
Bad people often have good information. And so, I think there needs to be a way to allow them to contribute.
But they also, like, I think of somebody wearing a scarlet letter. Like, maybe they need to have a scarlet letter that they get to clean up as they go along.
So, I just wanted to… talk about the redemption piece.
Love that, thanks, Stacey. I'm just noticing that I'm gonna have to wrap this call right at the half hour, because I have a different call
that got booked right after this, but we still have 5 minutes.
So, reflections. Thoughts.
I'm particularly interested in how a healthy society handles this. Go ahead, Alex.
I think this is… I feel… I just want to say I feel this is the… the best conversation we've had on a topic.
I've personally learned a lot in different aspects of it. I really enjoyed it.
Not that I don't enjoy the other ones, although I think this was a lot of quality stuff going on today.
this topic.
You said best conversation on a topic. In any topic.
Out of the ones I've participated in with you guys here.
Cool.
Oh. Well, you, you, you made it so, Alex.
Because… I'm not sure.
Yay! We're gonna have to Breitbartize your… your…
your thoughts coming back to you, so you don't think that when you talk, it's like, just, like,
stuff that doesn't, you know, matter. It's like, no, no, no, we…
We love what you bring to the group as well.
Eric.
I think I'll bring in the symbol. It's a bit of a touchy one, because I don't really want to go into the World Wide Web, but still… because it's… my mother's so much.
I know when NVC Turner. Nvc is for compassion.
this… and I actually know more than one that have trades from… of narcissism.
Or, like, what we call narcissism, because I think often it's a very… has bad wording. Because of that, I started researching.
How to be compassionate with all these kind of, uh… Personality disease, uh… disorders, uh, and all kind of dark, tried things, and there is quite a lot of approaches that deal with it in a more compassionate… it's not a simple way.
It requires a very deep understanding of. personal communication, a boundary setting.
But it's actually also really possible. am very under-trained, so there is a way.
Um, Eric is a trained NVC, uh,
facilitator or mediator, I think.
And, um, NVC is the worst-named, highly useful technique out there.
It's just a miserable name.
This is the way.
But what kind of, if… Eric, stop me if I'm getting this wrong, but what it involves is that usually there's two parties who are aggrieved somehow,
And you're trying to mediate between them, you try to get each party to articulate what the other party
is said. And it's…
It's about feelings and needs, and, like, what do I really feel, and what do I actually need, instead of saying, this is what is wrong about.
you, I say, like, oh, but I really feel any. That's…
Yes, but the little piece of jiu-jitsu magic that I'm trying to point to is…
The act of paraphrasing…
what the other person said, until they say, yes, that's what I said.
And they accept that you… that you're… you're repeating back to them the thing they said.
That little act softens brains on both sides, and it's like a tennis match where both sides have to do that.
And I think that that act of representing in your head and speaking out without agreeing to it. You're not agreeing that what they said was right,
You're just paraphrasing what they said. I find that that's a magic trick.
It's fabulous.
They do.
Jerry, don't you… Sorry, don't you think that's something that they could teach kids? I mean, to me, I always… But that should be, like, basic. That should be, like.
It's in some school curriculums. There's a couple… there's a video I watched of first graders
elementary school.
on their own, 3 kids went off to the side, and a little girl winds up being the NVC facilitator for two other kids who had a fight on the playground.
And they work it out. Like, yeah.
that it should be.
And they teach their parents.
I… can I pass the con to somebody? Would anybody like to keep this call going? And I have…
Or shall I… should we wrap the call?
No, I gotta go.
Okay, let's… we've had a great call. Thank you very, very much. Totally appreciate this.
Yeah, we gotta go.
Um… see you next week for our check-in call.